
The story takes place in the Forgotten Realms and it explores the history of magic and its purpose in the world

Magic in the Forgotten Realms is rooted in the Weave. The Weave is one of the 4 fundamental things that make up the cosmos. Matter, Space, Time and the Weave. Matter takes up Space and both Matter and Space are ever changing through Time. But, the Weave is the one most powerful of them all. The Weave holds the power to control all matter, space and time itself. Like all the other three, the Weave exists everywhere and flows through everything, connecting all matter. Best definition of the Weave you have is that it is a complex network of magical energy that permeates the cosmos. Spellcasters are able to tap into these networks through their knowledge of incantations and are able change the Weave’s flow, manipulating the “magic”. What is seen as magic is a manifestation of these flows of Weave and it takes the form of the incantation/emotions/background of the spellcaster. 

Birth of Mystryl

Lord Ao created the universe. At first it was nothing but energy, with neither light nor dark, heat nor cold. Eventually the energy created two deities – Selûne and Shar. Together they created heavens and Chauntea, the embodiment of the world of Toril.
Chauntea begged for light and warmth so that she could create life on the new world, but Shar opposed this vehemently. The subsequent war between the sisters created new deities – war, murder, and destruction among them. When Selûne lit one of the nearby heavenly bodies on fire to provide the light and warmth needed, Shar became enraged, trying to extinguish light everywhere. Selûne tore the energy from her own body and flung it at Shar, where it joined with Shar's energy and passed from both of them, thus creating the goddess of magic, Mystryl. The birth of Mystryl not only brought a truce to Selûne and Shar, but created the Weave.[3]
In the newly created Toril, magic abounded in everything, but in its raw state it was too dangerous for mortals to use. The Weave was a like a fabric, consisting of many threads, all woven together to create an intricate design. Spellcasting and the use of magic items pulled individual threads and reweaved them, creating a new design. After this, both mortals and deities could use magic through this fabric that was both the embodiment of Mystryl and a conduit to raw magic.

In the ancient history of the cosmos, the god of magic, Mystra, was responsible for creating and maintaining the Weave. She appointed Chosen to safeguard and channel her magic into the world of mortals. These Chosen were the most powerful spellcasters who were selected by Mystra herself to be her champions and conduits for her power. They channeled the Weave and used its power to mediate conflicts, heal the sick, and protect the realm from evil.
However, this balance was disrupted when Mystra was murdered. Without her divine presence to hold the Weave in check, the fabric of magic began to unravel and misbehave. Spells went awry and spellcasters found themselves unable to control their powers. During this time of chaos, dark forces began to take advantage of the disarray and threatened the fabric of reality itself.
In the aftermath of Mystra's death, other deities took up her mantle to maintain the Weave, but the new magic regime was not without flaws. Some scholars believe that the reason why magic behaves unpredictably is due to the Weave suffering from a wound caused by Mystra's murder. Others think that the problem is more fundamental, that the Weave is inherently unstable and that it was only Mystra's divine will that kept the balance from tipping.

Netherese

Netheril was an ancient, magocratic human empire of Faerûn, whose influence was felt across the Realms for thousands of years. The Netherese people lived in a strict hierarchy for hundreds of years, split into the nobles of High Netheril, living in flying enclaves miles above Toril, and the commoners of Low Netheril settled in demesnes[6] on the coast of the Narrow Sea.[7][8] During its glory years before Dale Reckoning, the Empire of Magic would spread across a great stretch of Faerûn.[9]

The empire was the pinnacle of human civilization during the first half of the Age of Humanity. Although they had humble roots as mere fishermen and farmers, the Netherese were introduced to the Art by the elves of Eaerlann,[1] and came to harness this arcane power in ways that would shape Toril for generations. Over the next thousand years they discovered the long lost Nether Scrolls, developed the creation and use of mythallars and created the first of their flying cities, Xinlenal.[2] The arrogance of Netheril grew to the point where they attempted to attain the divinity of magic, and wound up destroying the Weave. In the resulting maelstrom, the Faerûnian pantheon was altered and most of the flying cities of Netheril came crashing to the earth.

The High Netherese all instantly died while the low Netherese who lived in a safer area still survive in small numbers and in terrible conditions.

Mystra's death was realized by a High Netherese mage, Karsus. Karsus was born in Netheril in 3163 NY (−696 DR).[15] His father was Radman.[3] He was able to cast his first spell at the age of two, and by the age of twenty-two had become the youngest arcanist to ever create his own floating city.[16]

Gifted with magic, but lacking the necessary discipline that comes with hard work and research, he founded a school of magic on his enclave and encouraged the attendance of radical thinkers and those interested in taboo projects. 

In −345 DR, Arthindol the Terraseer appeared before Karsus and warned him that the goddess of magic Mystryl was soon to face her greatest challenge, and that this would forever affect the Netherese's perception of magic.[17][18]

Shouldering a responsibility for preserving his civilization, Karsus finished creating a spell, Karsus's avatar, that he had been developing for years. This spell would steal the power of a deity and transfer it to the archwizard that cast it.[19] He also crafted a crown specifically designed to usurp the powers of his chosen deity.[9] Karsus believed that with the power of a god at his disposal, he could destroy the phaerimm and unite his people.[19] Karsus cast the spell in 3520 NY (−339 DR), and chose Mystryl, the goddess of magic, as his target, feeling that she was the most powerful deity and the most appropriate choice for his purposes. Thus Karsus gained powers over all magic.

Unfortunately, his choice was a terrible mistake, for one of the responsibilities of the deity of magic was to regulate the flow of magic to and from all beings, spells, and magic items in the world. Since Karsus lacked the ability to do this properly, the magic of the world immediately surged and fluctuated wildly. With her last remaining bit of power, Mystryl sacrificed herself to block Karsus's access to the Weave, causing all magic to fail. The flying cities of Netheril plummeted to the earth. While Karsus briefly achieved apotheosis,[9] the severing of the link also killed him and transformed him into stone, and the last thing he saw was his entire civilization being destroyed because of his actions. This catastrophe came to be known as Karsus's Folly. The stone form of Karsus eventually landed in a part of the High Forest, now called the Dire Wood.[8] The city of Karse was built around its base.

Shar and the Shadow Weave

Shar has also tried to destroy Mystryl numerous times with the Shadow Weave, a dark counterpart of the Weave that Shar create. Her efforts were never realized as everytime, Mystryl successfully defended herself or all the universe went into chaos.


Our story occurs thousands of years after are the fighting between gods, a time when situations are much calmer. But tensions are at their peaks as Shar prepares another attack on the Goddess of Magic, Mystra using an artificial god-like monster with the power of Shadow Weave.
Further, a commoner in the city of Karse schemes to kill Mystra to make magic accesible to all by using the remenants of Karsus' lost magic.


The character's we are going to follow in the story are:

Khwarad Stoutbelcher: A noble and caring dwarven eldritch knight who was born in the deep mines of Kal'Kathzgar, a hidden city in the frosted peaks of the Ice Mountains. Khwarad is a chaotic good character and is generally very protective of innocent people, however, Khwarad can quickly get angry. Khwarad also hides a deep trauma from the fall of his home and the death of his fiance, Nanwess, after a goblin attack on Kal'Kathzgar. After his last adventure, Khwarad manages the magical caves of the Wave Echo Caves and protects the town of Phandalin from threats. Khwarad also believes that a dwarf traitor helped in the attack on Kal'Kathzgar.

Sunshade: A dark an mysterious half-elf blood hunter with unknown origins. Sunshade is a devotee of a bat god Nyxtus and aims to become vampire-like. Sunshade is of neutral evil allignment and in his past adventure he was able to complete the first ritual to ascension, in turn sacrificing his friend Shulak Googenheim. a fellow cleric. Sunshade now looks for the next steps to ascension.

Akihiro Bruhaven: A queit and focused human barbarian fighter multiclass. Akihiro is a calm, overlooking figure but he uses his fighting tactics alonside rage to fend off his enemies. Akihiro's past involves his rise to knighthood after years of training and his dedication to his craft. However, in his previous adventure, Akihiro died and his last thoughts were only dissapointment in himself and his abilities that he valued so much. He was dissapointed that he was no where close to strong. Akihiro did get saved and revived by Shar as she saw his abilities and chose him as her champion to do her bidding. Akihiro now aims to expand his fighting style and get stronger.

